---
layout: post
title: Rerandomizable ElGamal
categories: [Cryptography, public-key, Security]
tags: [Cryptography, public-key, Security]
description: Implementation of the re-randomizable ElGamal encryption scheme
---

I recently [developed][myelgamal] a re-randomizable version of the El-Gamal public-key encryption scheme based on what I have read in this [paper][scrambledb] written by Anja Lehmann. The classic ElGamal scheme is [CPA][cpa] secure with homomorphic properties, useful in scenarios where we struggle with passive adversaries.  

The re-randomizable instantiation of ElGmal should have the following interface:  

- __KGen__($$\tau$$): is a probabilistic key generation algorithm that takes as input a security parameter $$\tau$$, and outputs key pair $$(pk,sk)$$.
- __Enc__($$pk$$, $$m$$): is a probabilistic encryption function that takes as input public key $$pk$$ and a message $$m$$, and outputs a ciphertext pair $$(C1, C2)$$. 
- __Dec__($$sk$$, $$(C1, C2)$$): is a deterministic decryption function that takes as input secret key $$sk$$ and a ciphertext $$(C1, C2)$$, and outputs message $$m$$.
- __ReRand__($$pk$$, $$(C1, C2)$$): is a probabilistic randomization algorithm that takes as input public key $$pk$$ and a ciphertext $$(C1, C2)$$, and outputs a randomized ciphertext pair $$(C1', C2')$$.  


__Correctness.__ To show the correctness briefly at the interface level, if we have a key pair $$(pk,sk)$$ and message $$m$$, the following statements should hold:  

1. $$(C1, C2)$$ $$\stackrel{\$}{\longleftarrow}$$ Enc($$pk$$, $$m$$)
2. $$(C1', C2')$$ $$\stackrel{\$}{\longleftarrow}$$ ReRand($$pk$$, $$(C1, C2)$$)
3. $$m$$ $$\longleftarrow$$ Dec($$sk$$, $$(C1, C2)$$)
4. $$m'$$$$\longleftarrow$$ Dec($$sk$$, $$(C1', C2')$$)
5. This statement is true: $$m = m'$$ given that $$(C1, C2)\neq(C1', C2')$$

More concretly (yet high level), the underpinning algorithm is as follows. Let($$\mathbb{G},g,q$$) be system parameters such that the DDH problem is hard. $$q$$ is $$\tau$$-bit prime:

- __KGen__($$\tau$$): $$sk\stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow}\mathbb{Z}_q$$, $$pk\stackrel{}{\leftarrow}g^{sk}$$, output $$(sk,pk)$$
- __Enc__($$pk$$, $$m$$): $$r\stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow}\mathbb{Z}_q$$, output ($${pk}^r,g^{r}m$$)
- __Dec__($$sk$$, $$(C_1, C_2)$$): output $$m\stackrel{}{\leftarrow}C_2\cdot{C_1}^{-1/sk}$$
- __ReRand__($$pk$$, $$(C_1, C_2)$$): $$r'\stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow}\mathbb{Z}_q, C'_1\stackrel{}{\leftarrow}C_1\cdot{pk}^{r'},
C'_2\stackrel{}{\leftarrow}C_2\cdot{g}^{r'}$$, 
output $$C'\stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow}(C'_1,C'_2)$$  

When reading a paper or book, I hate those authors who leave the correctness as an exercise for the readers. However, since this is not really my work and my intension is to share the [implementation][myelgamal], I leave the actual correctness as an exercise for you; it's not that hard though.

__Implementation.__ I implemented this scheme in Java using the Bouncy Castle library. Feel free to give it a shot! Here is the [implementation][myelgamal]. You can find some examples in the [tests][myelgamaltests].




[wiki]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ElGamal_encryption
[scrambledb]: https://petsymposium.org/2019/files/papers/issue3/popets-2019-0048.pdf
[cpa]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chosen-plaintext_attack
[myelgamal]: https://github.com/emad7105/elgamal
[myelgamaltests]: https://github.com/emad7105/elgamal/blob/main/src/test/java/be/heydari/elgamal/ElGamal_UTest.java